# NMOScillator Compiler
The NMOScillator Compiler is a program to compile songs, composed in tracker software, into ROM files for use in the NMOScillator. The compiler currently only supports Furnace tracker.

## Installation

> [!TIP]
> The easiest way to use this compiler is to run the prebuilt binaries found in the [Releases](https://github.com/QEStudios/NMOScillatorCompiler/releases) section on GitHub.

### Building from source

Make sure you have Go installed on your system. You can find installation instructions for Go [here](https://go.dev/doc/install).

- To build the compiler for your own system, run `make build`. This will automatically grab the required dependencies and output a compiled binary in the `bin/` directory.

- To build binaries for all system architectures, run `make buildall`. The resulting binaries will be output in the `bin/` directory. If you have trouble running this command on a Windows machine, try using a Linux machine or VM instead.

## Usage

This compiler takes a Furnace **text export** (a .txt file). To generate a Furnace text export, open the song in Furnace and select File > Export... > Text tab > Export.

Some example compositions of public domain songs and their export files are provided in the `examples/` directory.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This version of the compiler is specifically designed to work with text exports generated by Furnace **version 0.6.8.3**. Using a file generated by a different version of Furnace will show a warning message in the console, but the compiler will still do its best to use the file. If something doesn't work, first make sure you're using Furnace version 0.6.8.3 before making an issue on github.

---

To compile a song into a ROM file, pass the Furnace song's text export `.txt` file as a command-line argument to the NMOScillator Compiler:
```bash
$ NMOScillatorCompiler path/to/export.txt
2026/03/06 13:10:43 NMOScillator Compiler version v0.1.0
2026/03/06 13:10:43 Furnace version 232 detected
2026/03/06 13:10:43 Subsong 0:  address: 0,     size: 5228 bytes
2026/03/06 13:10:43 Total rom size: 5228 bytes
```
If no input file is passed to the program, it will open a file picker window for you to select one.

---

By default, the output will be written to a `.bin` file of the same name in the input file's directory. If you want to specify a different output path, pass the `--output` / `-o` flag with the desired output file path:
```bash
$ NMOScillatorCompiler path/to/export.txt -o path/to/output.bin
# will write output file to path/to/output.bin
```

---

If you wish to target a specific subsong to compile, you can do so by passing the `--subsong` / `-s` flag with the desired subsong index. You can also pack multiple subsongs into a single ROM by separating each subsong index with a comma (`,`):
```bash
$ NMOScillatorCompiler path/to/export.txt -s 1 -o path/to/output.bin
# will only compile the second subsong present in the export (index 1).

$ NMOScillatorCompiler path/to/export.txt -s 0,3,2 -o path/to/output.bin
# will pack the first, forth, and third subsongs into a single ROM, in that order.
```
The compiler logs the resulting address and size of each subsong in the generated ROM file, such that any individual subsong can be played by starting the NMOScillator at that address in the ROM.

## Feature Support

### Supported Features

Currently, the compiler only supports Furnace text exports. Songs in furnace must be configured for the SN76489A sound chip, running at 4 MHz.

#### Supported Furnace effects:
- Jump to pattern (`0Bxx`)
- Jump to next pattern (`0Dxx`)
- Set speed (`09xx`, `0Fxx`)
- Set noise mode (`20xy`)
- Set tick rate (hz) (`Cxxx`)
- Set tick rate (bpm) (`F0xx`)

### Currently unsupported features:
- Instruments
- Arpeggio, pitch slides, volume slides, or any other effects that would require dynamically calculating pitch and/or volume of notes
- Groove patterns

## Contributing

As this is only a personal project, I may not accept some pull requests or issues if I deem them too out-of-scope or time consuming to address. However, I encourage anyone to fork and build upon my work if they wish.

## License
The source code for the NMOScillator Compiler program is licensed under [MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/).